Author: Nathan Tran (ntran48@ucsc.edu)

A library (MatrixMath.c) is responsible for containing functions that performs operations on 3X3 matrices as well as printing it. Another program (mml_test.c) is also used to test out these functions and display whether the functions are correct or not.

To approach this lab, I first did MatrixMath.c to make sure I had the operations correct. Then once that was finished, I would begin working on the mml_test.c file. Some things that were difficult while I was working on this lab was writing the matrix functions and debugging. While testing my functions using the test file, I realized that some functions didn't work for all cases, so I had to make some readjustments along the way. The biggest limitation I would say that is present in my program is that it only takes a 3X3 matrix. I think the method I did worked best for me, but if I was to do this lab again, I would take more time to think of ways to improve my test file. The file itself is quite long because I had many cases to test for each function, but I feel like I am able to reduce it down if I had more time. I mostly got help from the TAs and I thought that they were really helpful in understanding errors as well as explaining concepts to me. 

I honestly felt that I spent too long on this lab with about 15 hours on it. I did like how we had to make our own test file, but the lab instructions were a bit long and reading everything not only took a bit of time, but it also took longer for me to understand everything. I do, however, think that this is a worthwhile lab, again because we had to make our own test file. A suggestion would to maybe make the lab instruction shorter and more consise. The hardest parts of the lab would definitely be debugging the functions after running the test file and it fails. I felt that the points distribution was fair. The lab manual did cover the material enough, but a handful of students, including myself, were a bit uncertain about what we needed to do, but the TAs pretty much cleared it up. The examples during class for sure did help me to complete this lab, but I just wished that all topics for the lab was taught before the lab was assigned so that we would know how to use certain formats and such before we started the lab.